---
title: CS 218 - Design and Analysis of Algorithms
layout: post
---

## Introduction

### Logistics

#### Credit Structure

- End Sem Exam and Viva: 30%
- Mid Sem Exam: 15%
- Assignments and viva: 50 $$\pm$$ 5%
- Class participation: 5 $$\pm$$ 5%

#### Interaction Details

- MS Teams for live interaction and discussion
- Moodle for announcements
- MS Teams code: **amqp5c6**

#### References

- Algorithm Design – Jon Klienberg, Eva Tardos
- Algorithms - Jeff Erikson http://jeffe.cs.illinois.edu/teaching/algorithms/#book

### Course Outline

#### Module 1 - Basic techniques

- Greedy Algorithms
- Divide & Conquer
- Dynamic Programming

#### Module 2 - Combinatorial optimization

- Max-flow and min-cut and it's applications
- Optimization problems, LP formulation and duality

#### Module 3 - NP problems

- NP - Completeness and reduction

#### Module 4 - Mitigating NP-hardness

- Approximation Algorithms
- Better-than-brute-force algorithms

## Greedy Algorithms

This type of algorithms are used in optimization problem. The algorithm makes the optimal choice at each step to find the overall optimal way to solve the entire problem.

### Interval Scheduling

#### Problem Statement

We have to schedule jobs on a supercomputer which can do only one job at a time. *n* jobs are given with their starting and finishing time. We have to complete as many jobs as possible on this supercomputer.

#### Greedy approaches

There are many possible greedy approaches we can take here like choose a job with earliest starting time, choose the smallest available job or choose a job with the earliest finishing time. Unfortunately the first two approaches doesn't work but the third approaches works.

##### Why does it work?



